Add recap of OSS Vienna blog (#324)
xataio/mdx-blog: recap-oss-vienna.mdx

---

## Recap of OSS Vienna: What's Happening in the Open Source World 📝

We were at the Open Source Summit Europe in Vienna from September 16-18.
We had our booth, spoke with hundreds of people and received really positive feedback on our open-source tools.
We also hosted a [Postgres Happy Hour](https://xata.io/blog/oss-vienna-happy-hour) and the discussions were so enjoyable thay we even ended up having dinner with some attendees who stayed until the end of our two-hour event!

This was my first time at Open Source Summit and I am already looking forward to the [next one](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/) taking place in Amsterdam, Netherlands from August 25-27, 2025.

## Day 0

I must say the weather in Prague (my departure city), especially in the south of the Czech Republic, resembled what I imagine biblical floods would look like.
Travelling to Vienna (my destination) was not fun, to say the least. I was fortunate that my flight was not canceled and I managed to arrive on the same day as planned, unlike many others who had planned to use trains and could not even make it to their own talks.

> I intended to get my badge and set up our booth on Sunday but trip to Vienna was enough as it was, so we will jump directly to Day 1 😊

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I intended to get my badge and set up our booth on Sunday but my trip to Vienna was enough as it was, so we will jump directly to Day 1 😊
```

> However, I met my colleague Simona for the first time, and we managed to have dinner together with her my friend Yasar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, I met my colleague Simona for the first time, and we managed to have dinner together with my friend Yasar.
```

![Yasar, Simona and me after our dinner](/images/recap-oss-vienna/yasar-simona-gulcin.png)

## Day 1

> I arrived at the venue very early, struggling with my umbrella I borrowed from the hotel while carrying a luggage full of swag and a box with helium tank inside 😅

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I arrived at the venue very early, struggling with my umbrella I borrowed from the hotel while carrying a luggage full of swag and a box with a helium tank inside 😅
```

Luckily, I met two of the kindest people at the hotel breakfast and they helped me carry everything. Big thanks to Susan Remmert (from The Linux Foundation) and Jonas Remmert (from Phytec) for making it so much easier to settle into the conference!

### The Zephyr Project

If you are interested in [The Zephyr Project](https://zephyrproject.org/), go follow Susan!

Quoting from the #ZephyrRTOS [Github page](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr/tree/main):

> The Zephyr Project is a scalable real-time operating system (RTOS) supporting multiple hardware architectures, optimized for resource constrained devices, and built with security in mind.
> The Zephyr OS is based on a small-footprint kernel designed for use on resource-constrained systems: from simple embedded environmental sensors and LED wearables to sophisticated smart watches and IoT wireless gateways.
> The Zephyr kernel supports multiple architectures, including ARM (Cortex-A, Cortex-R, Cortex-M), Intel x86, ARC, Nios II, Tensilica Xtensa, and RISC-V, SPARC, MIPS, and a large number of supported boards.

> You can join community [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/Ck7jw53nU2) if you are interested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can join their community [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/Ck7jw53nU2) if you are interested.
```

### Xata Booth

Then, Noémi and Simona arrived. After getting our badges, we headed to the sponsor area to set up our booth.

> I also met Noémi for the first time, but the three of us hit it off immediately! Our booth quickly became the happiest one, with the sit-com level background laughter for the next three days 😂

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I also met Noémi for the first time, and the three of us hit it off immediately! Our booth quickly became the happiest one, with the sitcom level background laughter, for the next three days 😂
```

Then I realized, we need to up our game and make our hiring board more visible. Knowing, we have Elizabet is like a superpower, she delivered a cute poster for us (again 😊).

![We are hiring!](/images/recap-oss-vienna/we-are-hiring.png)

If you are looking for a job and think you would be a good fit for Xata, [apply here](https://xata.io/careers).

## Day 2

### Extension Ecosystem Summit & Xata Postgres Dinner

On the second day my friend [Alastair Turner](https://www.linkedin.com/in/decodableminion/) visited me at the Xata booth.

![Alastair and I at the booth](/images/recap-oss-vienna/alastair-gulcin.png)

While I was showcasing our open source projects via the cutest stickers of each of them he noticed [pgzx](https://github.com/xataio/pgzx) which is our open source framework for creating Postgres extensions in Zig language.

![Cute pgzx sticker](/images/recap-oss-vienna/pgzx-sticker.png)

He mentioned that our common friend [Floor Drees](https://www.linkedin.com/in/floordrees/) is organizing an event on the Day 0 of [PGConf.EU](https://2024.pgconf.eu/) dedicated for Postgres extensions and he will be giving a talk about [pg_tde](https://github.com/Percona-Lab/pg_tde) there.

> And he suggested pgzx would fit perfectly for the extensions discussion as it allows developers to build Postgres extensions. I took his advice and contacted Floor, and I will give giving a talk about pgzx at the [Extensions Ecosystem Summit](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/extension-ecosystem-summit-tickets-1022518730047).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And he suggested pgzx would fit perfectly for the extensions discussion as it allows developers to build Postgres extensions. I took his advice and contacted Floor, and soon after I was scheduled for giving a talk about pgzx at the [Extensions Ecosystem Summit](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/extension-ecosystem-summit-tickets-1022518730047).
```

If you are heading Athens for PGConf.EU this year, join us at Extensions Ecosystem Summit sponsored by Tembo, Percona, Xata and Timescale.

![Extensions Ecosystem Summit](/images/recap-oss-vienna/extensions-summit.png)

And right after the summit, we are hosting our Xata Postgres Dinner, join us via registering [this form](https://5i8caik7lja.typeform.com/).

![Join us for a Postgres Dinner in Athens](/images/recap-oss-vienna/athens-dinner.png)

## Day 3

Photo from booth
Photo of girl with our balloon
Cutest booth people says
// insert her photo with the balloon
Eleni grosdouli // giving me tips for greek places

### CNCP Meeting

Lunch // women and non-binary lunch

### Postgres Happy Hour

// insert party photos

## Conclusion

> You can watch all the recording at [Linux Foundation's Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@LinuxfoundationOrg), there is a playlist named [OSS EU 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIinl7r-FJI&list=PLbzoR-pLrL6rC7SpO7MJCZm22Qp5ns3p-&pp=iAQB) set for this event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can watch all the recordings on the [Linux Foundation's Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@LinuxfoundationOrg), there is a playlist named [OSS EU 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIinl7r-FJI&list=PLbzoR-pLrL6rC7SpO7MJCZm22Qp5ns3p-&pp=iAQB) set for this event.
```

Keynotes are listed as part of a dedicated playlist named [Keynotes @ OSS EU 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xdFMKMcESLI&list=PLbzoR-pLrL6pwSxJqsghZ1XVNb7pngzJv&pp=iAQB).

> I truly enjoyed being part of OSS Europe and looking forward to attending next one. If you're also planning to attend [next year's](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/) #OSSummit let me know!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I truly enjoyed being part of OSS Europe and looking forward to attending the next one. If you're also planning to attend [next year's](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/) #OSSummit let me know!
```

Devrel foundation have tweeted

> https://x.com/linuxfoundation/status/1835590347365163237?s=46\&t=oLSbUb4p0O\_6BtJKfhCVCg

Author: @miukimiu changing URLs probably fixed the preview but made the URLs not working :)

Reviewer 2: Oops! The auto-prettier fixes kicked in! But I've already pushed the corrections [here](https://github.com/xataio/mdx-blog/pull/324/commits/bd0f27158fea610a27d2d961be72b68fe12940a6).

For future reference, it's always better to use the Markdown syntax for links to avoid prettier issues, like this: `[Link text here](https://link-url-here.org)`.
